# ICS4U-Portfolio.github.io
[A collection of my projects from the ICS4U course.](https://alexclements63.github.io/ICS4U-Portfolio/)

## Interview Questions And Answers

### 1. How does computer science/programming give you what you need to continue learning?
In today's world, it is simply impossible to deny the vast impact that computers have had on society. At this point, computers are nearly vital for anyone that is trying to go anywhere professionally, as there are so many different benefits that come from using a computer. Whether that's using the extensive selection of options that Google offers for free (Drive, Docs, Slides, Sheets), creating your own website or **so many** other options, it's quite easy to see the need for computers in the modern world. As well, computer science and computer programming rely on math and thus a wide variety of math skills can be learned from doing computer science, and vice versa. In addition, computer programming can easily be linked and used in the sciences, whether that's for simulating natural phenomena, or for assisting with medical work, like in hospitals! There are so many different concepts and ideas you can learn from engaging in computer science and computer programming.

In my personal experience, I've felt like I have certainly improved my overall skills when it comes to school, and, of course, most prominently in mathematics and computer science. Ever since I started to learn how to program, I have noticed that my overall understanding of math concepts has become much better and I've had a much easier time learning the concepts, and I think this is best attributed to the many lessons that you can take from doing computer programming and learning computer science. For example, constantly using documentation, no matter how tedious, has taught me to be more clear in any work that I'm doing, and make sure that I am showing and explaining all that I am doing. As well, through working with the natural simulations course on Khan Academy, I further developed by understanding of physics and was quite interested by the clear link between physics and computer science shown from that course. This is only scratching the surface of all that I've learned - and will continue to learn - from doing computer science and programming. I haven't even mentioned the great use of algorithms, functions that can directly translate into math and so much else. Simply put, computer science has helped me to develop skills that allow for me to be much more logical, effective and organized way when learning, and I am undoubtedly grateful for the impact that computer science has had on my life.
### 2. Summarize your experience with Khan Academy.
Khan Academy is a non-profit educational organization that has the main goal of educating students on a wide variety of material in an online format. Khan Academy is free and offers courses for Standardized Tests, Mathematics (at all levels), Science, Computing, Arts, the Humanities, Economics and Finance. Khan Academy's format is fairly universal, like schools actually in-person - They give a lesson and then have questions/quizzes/modules that allow you to demonstrate and develop your understanding of the given topic. The lessons can be text-based or even videos, that really help to promote learning. In terms of the Computer Programming courses on Khan Academy, they all followed that same structure, also having a project at the end of a majority of the bigger topics, promoting creativity and truly seeing just how well the learner understands the content.

When it comes to how working through Khan Academy went for me, I had a great time working through all of the modules in the Computer Programming course, as well as doing a large part of the AP Computer Science Principles course. For the Computer Programming course, I really feel like I learned a **lot** from all of the different modules on Khan Academy, whether that was completing the all of the JavaScript portions, SQL or HTML. I went through the entire course in the order that it had set out and I definitely feel like that was the best and most efficient way to do it. I found the way that they organized the lessons, challenges and projects within the Computer Programming course was highly effective and definitely helped to further engage me in the learning. I absolutely benefited from all the course and developed strength and understanding in languages I previously had next to no experience with, such as HTML, CSS, SQL and jQuery. One of the most interesting modules to me was the JavaScript Natural Simulations module, which combined physics (which I took this semester) with computer programming concepts. While it was a challenge at times, it was certainly interesting and ended up being a lot of fun to work with. As well, the module provided me with some reinforcement of my physics knowledge which definitely benefited me in my actual physics course too. While I could continue on and delve into each specific module from the Computer Programming course, it is worthwhile to also mention the AP Computer Science Principles course, which taught me even more about hardware, software, the internet and computers in general. A negative aspect of this course, however, was the fact that it reset and changed its content while I was over halfway complete, resetting my progress all the way back to around 5%. This caused me to lose a lot of the motivation I had to complete it. While that course was, overall, beneficial, I didn't end up fully completing it, as there simply wasn't enough time. Overall, my experience with Khan Academy was highly positive and I truly felt like I gained a lot from the course a computer programmer, and just as a learner in general. 

### 3. Summarize your experience with freeCodeCamp
freeCodeCamp (FCC), like Khan Academy, is a non-profit educational organization that has the main goal of making education freely available online to anyone. freeCodeCamp focuses on helping people learn how to code for free, and have thousands of videos, articles and lessons that help to engage learners in their content. They have 6 main courses on the online platform, which can all grant a certification to anyone who completes all of the modules within the course. In addition to that, they have a section entitled "Coding Interview Prep", which has thousands of hours worth of challenges and modules to complete. In terms of the languages that freeCodeCamp uses, they teach JavaScript, HTML, CSS, ES6 and Sass, and teach Javascript libraries like jQuery, Bootstrap, React and Redux. 

In my own experience, I worked through the first 5 courses on freeCodeCamp (Responsive Web Design, JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures, Front End Libraries, Data Visualization, and APIs and Microservices). Overall, I enjoyed the way freeCodeCamp was set-up for teaching, although I found it to be less engaging than Khan Academy. To me, FCC is more of a, "Just keep working through and understand everything after reading this one page" whereas Khan Academy provides more guidance and has the videos as a part of each lesson. Despite this, I do still feel like I gained a lot from using freeCodeCamp. As well, I completed freeCodeCamp after the Khan Academy Computer Programming course, so a lot of the modules ended up just being review. I'm not saying that as a bad thing, though, as I definitely feel like having that extra review and practice only furthered my skills in coding in the various languages. As well, it was fun to experiment with some more JavaScript libraries in the course (most notably Bootstrap, React and Redux), as those drove home the point of using libraries to further enhance your coding ability. There weren't too many challenges in working through FCC, and if I was confused on a certain challenge, the freeCodeCamp community is fantastic and always has 'help' pages for the challenges. In terms of the projects, I completed all of them within the JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures course, resulting in me getting the certification, saying that I completely finished that course. Other than that, I practically completed one project from each of the other courses, to keep myself engaged in the learning and challenge my abilities. Overall, freeCodeCamp definitely was beneficial to me and was worth the time that I invested into it. 
